Exercise 5.1

1.How is this problem represented in general (write in your own words). Define the variables, the value domain and the constraints.

We should color every states in the map within 4 colors. Every states in the map is a variable, the values of the variables are four colors(0,1,2,3). All borders in the map are constraints, and two sides of any border should have different color.

2. Implement your algorithm using backtracking, backtracking with forward checking, backtracking with AC-3, and min-conflicts. Please run the algorithms with and without an initial assignment for one state. Construct a table of average run times for each algorithm for values and show the results. Comment on your results.

The file table1.xlsx is the table of run times in different cases. Because of the run time of 10-states problem is very short, we run the program on 51-states problem. In the table we can find that if we use forward-check or AC3 when we use back-tracking, it will save a lot of time. Back-tracking with AC3 can save more time than back-tracking with forward-check. If we have a initial assignment for one state, the time of running this program are a little bit more than the case we do not have a initial assignment for one state. If we use min-conflict search, it can find a solution quickly in 10-state problem, but it can not find a solution within limit time in 51-state problem.

3.You have implemented the same problem with different algorithms(assignment 4+5). What have you learned from the two exercises? Is there a preference of one algorithm over the other? If yes, please comment on that. If no, please do the same :-).

If we define a problem in different ways, we may have different kinds of algorithm to solve it. In this problem, I think the back-tracking with AC3 is the best algorithm to solve this problem. This algorithm takes the least amount of time and is sure to find a solution.

Exercise 5.2

In this question I built a new table named table2.xlsx. In this file, I wrote down the runtime of the two problems solved by different kinds of algorithms.
For USA(51 states) problem, the best algorithms to solve the problem are Back-tracking with Degree heuristic and Back-tracking with forward-check, MRV. Because of the time cost to find a least-constraining-value, LCV is not a good method in this problem.
For Sudoku problem, the best algorithm to solve the problem is Back-tracking with forward-check. Because of large amount of constrains in the problem, AC3 is not a good method to solve this problem.